# Project Apollo (Name TBD)
### Keith Ellingwood, Elbert Cheng, Brian Park, Jonathan Trinh, Christopher Kim

## The Problem we wish to focus on

Our understanding of the issue can be found within the American Disability Act’s attention towards accessibility is “complex and uneven” (Pulrang, 2021). According to our research “Enforcement is inconsistent, and advocacy is stigmatized”; “Accessibility complaints and lawsuits are often portrayed as greedy, unfair, or dishonest.” and we “[wait for] periods for businesses that have not yet made necessary accessibility changes'' (Pulrang). In addition, it was highlighted how important universal design is, in regards towards the ignorant design of an “$41.5 million public library in Long Island City ” where there were inaccessible areas of the building towards those who are mobility disabled (Otterman, 2019). it was emphasized how “important is it towards ”allowing everyone to independently enjoy spaces..[and asking someone] else to help you is, at worst, demeaning, and at best, a limiting experience” (Otterman). These sources all lead to the reality of the lack of reliable information to aid the mobily-disable community and the development of barriers that hinders the lives of many individuals of that community.

From our current understanding of the problem, we have deduced a primary cause: A lack of reliable and accessible information on resources and pathways for mobility-disabled people. There is no concrete and updatable source of information that mobility-disabled and wheel-needed individuals can reliably use. Some information may not be available or fully detailed enough to be effectively utilized to create an easy commuting experience. This type of absence and needed information makes it harder to avoid or overcome commuting challenges found within the lives of individuals in mobility-impaired communities. In addition, many businesses do not fully account for the needs of mobility-disabled and wheel-needed individuals, creating barriers for this community that need to be addressed and fixed. According to a Forbes article, “Businesses with barriers today mostly seem to ignore the problem, either out of indifference, or a vague sense of guilt and helplessness…Others outsource the problem to architects and consultants … some of whom actually try to improve accessibility, while others apply their skills to more sophisticated forms of avoidance.” (Pulrang). On top of ignoring the problem, they also try to blame others. “Susan Prokop, PVA’s National Advocacy Director, says that newly-opened businesses that receive accessibility complaints will often say, ‘... our building code inspector signed off on this and didn’t say anything about accessibility’” (Pulrang). Through our project, we aim to tackle the issue of businesses and city planners ignoring their responsibility of creating an accessible infrastructure. Using an accessibility first design, we will start the advocacy for making accessibility an required necessity.

## How we want to address it

To address this problem, we want to create an interactive application that allows users to find, view and rate accessibility data of public locations much easier and more efficiently. In this application, we will have a map that allows users to view locations, as well as certain accessibility landmarks within these locations (ramps, elevators, ect). When the user clicks on these landmarks/locations, they have the ability to rate locations based on accessibility features and uploade written reviews of points of interest with accessible features at said location. This will empower our users to crowdsource accessibility data and lead to a more reliable source of accessibility data. Finally, we are interested in creating a public API that others can use to pull accessibility data from our project to use with their projects, expanding the availability of accessibility data even further.